.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 2007 (C) Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\" some parts Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:46:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Aug  4 10:51:53 2000 - patch from Joseph S. Myers
.\" 2007-12-15, mtk, Mostly rewritten
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ABORT 3 2017\-11\-26 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
abort \- аварийно завершает процесс
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid abort(void);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Сначала функция \fBabort\fP() разблокирует сигнал \fBSIGABRT\fP, а затем
генерирует этот сигнал для вызывающего процесса (как если бы была вызвана
\fBraise\fP(3)). Это приводит к аварийному завершению процесса, если сигнал
\fBSIGABRT\fP не обрабатывается и обработчик сигнала не возвращает управление
(смотрите \fBlongjmp\fP(3)).
.PP
Если сигнал \fBSIGABRT\fP игнорируется или обрабатывается обработчиком, который
возвращает управление, то функция \fBabort\fP() всё равно завершит процесс. Она
восстанавливает обработчик \fBSIGABRT\fP по умолчанию, а затем генерирует
сигнал повторно.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBabort\fP() никогда не возвращает управление.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBabort\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
.\" glibc commit 91e7cf982d0104f0e71770f5ae8e3faf352dea9f
Вплоть до glibc 2.26, если функция \fBabort\fP() вызывала завершение процесса,
то все открытые потоки закрывались и сбрасывались на диск (как при
\fBfclose\fP(3)). Однако, в некоторых случаях это могло приводить к взаимным
блокировкам и повреждению данных. Поэтому, начиная с glibc 2.27, \fBabort\fP()
завершает процесс не сбрасывая потоки на диск. В POSIX.1 разрешено и такое
поведение, там указано, что \fBabort\fP() «может выполнить попытку отработать
как fclose() на все открытые потоки».
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4, POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBgdb\fP(1), \fBsigaction\fP(2), \fBassert\fP(3), \fBexit\fP(3), \fBlongjmp\fP(3),
\fBraise\fP(3)
