.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:31:13 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sun Jun  6 23:27:50 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:45:37 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sat Dec 16 15:02:59 2000, Joseph S. Myers
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ABS 3 2016\-03\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
abs, labs, llabs, imaxabs \- вычисление абсолютного значения целого числа
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint abs(int \fP\fIj\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong int labs(long int \fP\fIj\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong long int llabs(long long int \fP\fIj\fP\fB);\fP

\fB#include <inttypes.h>\fP
.PP
\fBintmax_t imaxabs(intmax_t \fP\fIj\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBllabs\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
.RE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBabs\fP() вычисляет абсолютное значение целого аргумента
\fIj\fP. Функции \fBlabs\fP(), \fBllabs\fP() и \fBimaxabs\fP() вычисляют абсолютное
значение аргумента \fIj\fP соответствующего типа целого.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Возвращают абсолютное значение целого аргумента в соответствующем типе
целого.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.ad l
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBabs\fP(),
\fBlabs\fP(),
\fBllabs\fP(),
\fBimaxabs\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.ad
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
.\" POSIX.1 (1996 edition) requires only the
.\" .BR abs ()
.\" function.
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD. В C89 включены только функции
\fBabs\fP() и \fBlabs\fP; функции \fBllabs\fP() и \fBimaxabs\fP() были добавлены в C99.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Абсолютное значение минимального отрицательного целого не определено.
.PP
Функция \fBllabs\fP() включена в glibc начиная с версии 2.0. Функция
\fBimaxabs\fP() включена в glibc начиная с версии 2.1.1.
.PP
Чтобы объявить \fBllabs\fP(), необходимо определить \fB_ISOC99_SOURCE\fP или
\fB_ISOC9X_SOURCE\fP (в зависимости от версии glibc) до включения любых
стандартных заголовочных файлов.
.PP
По умолчанию, GCC обращается с \fBabs\fP(), \fBlabs\fP() и (начиная с GCC 3.0)
\fBllabs\fP() и \fBimaxabs\fP() как со встроенными функциями.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBcabs\fP(3), \fBceil\fP(3), \fBfabs\fP(3), \fBfloor\fP(3), \fBrint\fP(3)
