.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ATAN2 3 2017\-09\-15 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
atan2, atan2f, atan2l \- функция вычисления арктангенcа двух переменных
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.PP
\fBdouble atan2(double \fP\fIy\fP\fB, double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
\fBfloat atan2f(float \fP\fIy\fP\fB, float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong double atan2l(long double \fP\fIy\fP\fB, long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
Компонуется при указании параметра \fI\-lm\fP.
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBatan2f\fP(), \fBatan2l\fP():
.RS
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эти функции вычисляют арктангенс \fIy/x\fP; знак обоих аргументов используется
для определения квадранта результата.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении данные функции возвращают значение арктангенса
\fIy/x\fP в радианах; возвращаемое значение находится в диапазоне [\-pi,\ pi].
.PP
Если \fIy\fP равно +0 (\-0) и \fIx\fP меньше 0, то возвращается +pi (\-pi).
.PP
Если \fIy\fP равно +0 (\-0) и \fIx\fP больше 0, то возвращается +0 (\-0).
.PP
Если \fIy\fP меньше 0 и и \fIx\fP равно +0 или \-0, то возвращается \-pi/2.
.PP
Если \fIy\fP больше 0 и и \fIx\fP равно +0 или \-0, то возвращается pi/2.
.PP
.\" POSIX.1 says:
.\" If
.\" .I x
.\" is 0, a pole error shall not occur.
.\"
Если \fIx\fP или \fIy\fP равно NaN, тот возвращается NaN.
.PP
.\" POSIX.1 says:
.\" If the result underflows, a range error may occur and
.\" .I y/x
.\" should be returned.
.\"
Если \fIx\fP равно +0 (\-0) и \fIx\fP равно \-0, то возвращается +pi (\-pi).
.PP
Если \fIx\fP равно +0 (\-0) и \fIx\fP равно +0, то возвращается +0 (\-0).
.PP
Если \fIy\fP — конечное значение большее (меньшее) 0 и \fIx\fP стремится к минус
бесконечности, то возвращается +pi (\-pi).
.PP
Если \fIy\fP — конечное значение большее (меньшее) 0 и \fIx\fP стремится к плюс
бесконечности, то возвращается +0 (\-0).
.PP
Если \fIy\fP стремится к плюс бесконечности (минус бесконечности) и \fIx\fP имеет
конечное значение, то будет возвращено pi/2 (\-pi/2).
.PP
Если \fIy\fP стремится к плюс бесконечности (минус бесконечности) и \fIx\fP
стремится к минус бесконечности, то будет возвращено +3*pi/4 (\-3*pi/4).
.PP
.\"
.\" POSIX.1 says:
.\" If both arguments are 0, a domain error shall not occur.
Если \fIy\fP стремится к плюс бесконечности (минус бесконечности) и \fIx\fP
стремится к плюс бесконечности, то будет возвращено +pi/4 (\-pi/4).
.SH ОШИБКИ
.\" POSIX.1 documents an optional underflow error
.\" glibc 2.8 does not do this.
Ошибки не возникают.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw28 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBatan2\fP(),
\fBatan2f\fP(),
\fBatan2l\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
C99, POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008.
.PP
Вариант, возвращающий значение типа \fIdouble\fP, также соответствует SVr4,
4.3BSD, C89.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBacos\fP(3), \fBasin\fP(3), \fBatan\fP(3), \fBcarg\fP(3), \fBcos\fP(3), \fBsin\fP(3),
\fBtan\fP(3)
