.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Mar 29 22:39:41 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:38:42 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Dec 17 18:35:06 2000, Joseph S. Myers
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ATOI 3 2016\-03\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
atoi, atol, atoll \- преобразует строку в целое число
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint atoi(const char *\fP\fInptr\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong atol(const char *\fP\fInptr\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong long atoll(const char *\fP\fInptr\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBatoll\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE ||
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBatoi\fP() преобразовывает начальную часть строки, на которую
указывает \fInptr\fP, к типу \fIint\fP. Она действует также как
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
strtol(nptr, NULL, 10);
.EE
.in
.PP
однако \fBatoi\fP() не определяет ошибки.
.PP
Функции \fBatol\fP() и \fBatoll\fP() ведут себя так же, как и \fBatoi\fP(), за
исключением того факта, что начальная часть строки приводится к типу \fIlong\fP
или \fIlong long\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Преобразованное значение.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw23 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBatoi\fP(),
\fBatol\fP(),
\fBatoll\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe locale
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD. В C89 и POSIX.1\-1996 содержат
только функции \fBatoi\fP() и \fBatol\fP().
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
.\" The
.\" .BR atoll ()
.\" function is present in glibc 2 since version 2.0.2, but
.\" not in libc4 or libc5.
В Linux libc есть \fBatoq\fP(), устаревшее название \fBatoll\fP(); \fBatoq\fP()
отсутствует в glibc.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBatof\fP(3), \fBstrtod\fP(3), \fBstrtol\fP(3), \fBstrtoul\fP(3)
