.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:36:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 23:47:36 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH BCMP 3 2017\-03\-13 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
bcmp \- сравнивает две последовательности байт
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <strings.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint bcmp(const void *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const void *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBbcmp\fP() сравнивает две последовательности байт \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP
длиной \fIn\fP каждая. Если они равны или если \fIn\fP равно нулю, то \fBbcmp\fP()
возвращает 0. В противном случае она возвращает ненулевой результат.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBbcmp\fP() возвращает 0, если последовательности байт равны, иначе
возвращается ненулевой результат.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBbcmp\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
4.3BSD. Данная функция устарела (отмечена как УСТАРЕВШАЯ в POSIX.1\-2001): в
новых программах следует использовать \fBmemcmp\fP(3). В POSIX.1\-2008
спецификация \fBbcmp\fP() удалена.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbstring\fP(3), \fBmemcmp\fP(3), \fBstrcasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrcmp\fP(3), \fBstrcoll\fP(3),
\fBstrncasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrncmp\fP(3)
