.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:29:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Thu Jul 26 14:06:20 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH BYTEORDER 3 2017\-09\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \- переводят данные из узлового порядка
расположения байтов в сетевой и наоборот
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <arpa/inet.h>\fP
.PP
\fBuint32_t htonl(uint32_t \fP\fIhostlong\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBuint16_t htons(uint16_t \fP\fIhostshort\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBuint32_t ntohl(uint32_t \fP\fInetlong\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBuint16_t ntohs(uint16_t \fP\fInetshort\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBhtonl\fP() преобразует значение беззнакового целого \fIhostlong\fP из
узлового порядка расположения байтов в сетевой порядок расположения байтов.
.PP
Функция \fBhtons\fP() преобразует значение короткого беззнакового целого
\fIhostshort\fP из узлового порядка расположения байтов в сетевой порядок
расположения байтов.
.PP
Функция \fBntohl\fP() преобразует значение беззнакового целого \fInetlong\fP из
сетевого порядка расположения байтов в узловой порядок расположения байтов.
.PP
Функция \fBntohs\fP() преобразует значение короткого беззнакового целого
\fInetshort\fP из сетевого порядка расположения байтов в узловой порядок
расположения байтов.
.PP
В архитектуре i386 используется узловой порядок расположения байтов —
последний значимый байт стоит в начале числа (Least Significant Byte), в то
время как сетевым порядком байт, используемым в интернет, считается Most
Significant Byte (в начале числа стоит последний значимый байт).
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw34 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBhtonl\fP(),
\fBhtons\fP(),
\fBntohl\fP(),
\fBntohs\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008.
.PP
В некоторых ОС требуется включать \fI<netinet/in.h>\fP вместо
\fI<arpa/inet.h>\fP.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbswap\fP(3), \fBendian\fP(3), \fBgethostbyname\fP(3), \fBgetservent\fP(3)
