.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-03-29, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified 1993-07-24, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-08-10, 2003-11-01 Walter Harms, aeb
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH DIV 3 2016\-03\-15 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
div, ldiv, lldiv, imaxdiv \- вычисляет частное и остаток деления целого числа
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBdiv_t div(int \fP\fInumerator\fP\fB, int \fP\fIdenominator\fP\fB);\fP
\fBldiv_t ldiv(long \fP\fInumerator\fP\fB, long \fP\fIdenominator\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlldiv_t lldiv(long long \fP\fInumerator\fP\fB, long long \fP\fIdenominator\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fB#include <inttypes.h>\fP
.PP
\fBimaxdiv_t imaxdiv(intmax_t \fP\fInumerator\fP\fB, intmax_t \fP\fIdenominator\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.ad l
.PP
\fBlldiv\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
.RE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBdiv\fP() вычисляет величину \fInumerator\fP/\fIdenominator\fP и возвращает
частное и остаток в структуре \fIdiv_t\fP, которая содержит два целочисленных
поля (в неопределённом порядке) \fIquot\fP и \fIrem\fP. Частное округляется до
ближайшего нуля. Результат равняется \fIquot\fP*\fIdenominator\fP+\fIrem\fP =
\fInumerator\fP.
.PP
Функции \fBldiv\fP(), \fBlldiv\fP() и \fBimaxdiv\fP() выполняют эту же функцию, деля
числа соответствующего типа и возвращая результат в структуре с
соответствующим именем, всегда с полями \fIquot\fP и \fIrem\fP того же типа, что и
аргументы функции.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Структура \fIdiv_t\fP (и т. д.).
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw33 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBdiv\fP(),
\fBldiv\fP(),
\fBlldiv\fP(),
\fBimaxdiv\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C89, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD. Функции \fBlldiv\fP() и
\fBimaxdiv\fP() добавлены в C99.
.SH ПРИМЕР
После
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
div_t q = div(\-5, 3);
.EE
.in
.PP
значения \fIq.quot\fP и \fIq.rem\fP равны \-1 и \-2, соответственно.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBabs\fP(3), \fBremainder\fP(3)
