.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ERF 3 2017\-09\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
erf, erff, erfl \- функция ошибки
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.PP
\fBdouble erf(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
\fBfloat erff(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong double erfl(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
.fi
Компонуется при указании параметра \fI\-lm\fP.
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBerf\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L || _XOPEN_SOURCE
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* в версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.br
\fBerff\fP(), \fBerfl\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эти функции возвращают функцию ошибки от \fIx\fP, определённую как
.TP 
    erf(x) = 2/sqrt(pi)* интеграл от 0 до x по exp(\-t*t) dt
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении эти функции возвращают функцию ошибки от \fIx\fP,
значение в диапазоне [\-1,\ 1].
.PP
Если \fIx\fP имеет значение NaN, будет возвращено NaN.
.PP
Если \fIx\fP равно +0 (\-0), будет возвращено +0 (\-0).
.PP
Если \fIx\fP стремится к плюс или минус бесконечности, то будет возвращено +1
или \-1.
.PP
Если значение \fIx\fP субнормально, то генерируется ошибка диапазона и
возвращается значение 2*x/sqrt(pi).
.SH ОШИБКИ
Смотрите \fBmath_error\fP(7), чтобы определить, какие ошибки могут возникать
при вызове этих функций.
.PP
Могут возникать следующие ошибки:
.TP 
Ошибка диапазона: результат исчерпал степень(число \fIx\fP субнормально)
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
Возникает исключение исчерпания степени чисел с плавающей запятой
(\fBFE_UNDERFLOW\fP).
.PP
.\" FIXME . Is it intentional that these functions do not set errno?
.\" Bug raised: http://sources.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6785
Эти функции не изменяют \fIerrno\fP.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw21 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBerf\fP(),
\fBerff\fP(),
\fBerfl\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
C99, POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008.
.PP
Вариант, возвращающий значение типа \fIdouble\fP, также соответствует SVr4,
4.3BSD.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBcerf\fP(3), \fBerfc\fP(3), \fBexp\fP(3)
