.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)ferror.3	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:24:40 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Added remark on EBADF for fileno, aeb, 2001-03-22
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FERROR 3 2019\-03\-06 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
clearerr, feof, ferror, fileno \- проверка и сброс состояния потока
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <stdio.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid clearerr(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint feof(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint ferror(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint fileno(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBfileno\fP(): _POSIX_C_SOURCE
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBclearerr\fP() очищает индикаторы конца файла и ошибки потока,
указанного в \fIstream\fP.
.PP
Функция \fBfeof\fP() проверяет индикатор конца файла для потока, указанного в
\fIstream\fP, возвращая при этом ненулевое значение, если индикатор
установлен. Индикатор конца файла может быть очищен только функцией
\fBclearerr\fP().
.PP
Функция \fBferror\fP() проверяет индикатор ошибки для потока, указанного в
\fIstream\fP, возвращая при этом ненулевое значение, если индикатор
установлен. Индикатор ошибки может быть очищен только функцией
\fBclearerr\fP().
.PP
Функция \fBfileno\fP() исследует параметр \fIstream\fP и возвращает целочисленный
файловый дескриптор, который используется для реализации этого
потока. Файловый дескриптор продолжает принадлежать \fIstream\fP и будет закрыт
при вызове \fBfclose\fP(3). Сделайте копию файлового дескриптора с помощью
\fBdup\fP(2) перед передачей его коду, который может его закрыть.
.PP
Неблокирующие аналоги смотрите в \fBunlocked_stdio\fP(3).
.SH ОШИБКИ
Данные функции не должны завершаться с ошибкой и поэтому не устанавливают
значение внешней переменной \fIerrno\fP (тем не менее, в случае с \fBfileno\fP(),
если аргумент не является корректным потоком, возвращается \-1 и \fIerrno\fP
приравнивается значение \fBEBADF\fP).
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw19 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBclearerr\fP(),
\fBfeof\fP(),
.br
\fBferror\fP(),
\fBfileno\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Функции \fBclearerr\fP(), \fBfeof\fP() и \fBferror\fP() соответствует стандартам C89,
C99, POSIX.1\-2001 и POSIX.1\-2008.
.PP
Функция \fBfileno\fP() соответствует POSIX.1\-2001 и POSIX.1\-2008.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBopen\fP(2), \fBfdopen\fP(3), \fBstdio\fP(3), \fBunlocked_stdio\fP(3)
