.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:39:35 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Modified 2003 Walter Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FFS 3 2017\-09\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
ffs, ffsl, ffsll \- ищет первый установленный бит в слове
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <strings.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint ffs(int \fP\fIi\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint ffsl(long int \fP\fIi\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint ffsll(long long int \fP\fIi\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBffs\fP():
.RS 4
.TP  4
Начиная с glibc 2.12:
    _XOPEN_SOURCE >= 700
    || ! (_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L)
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.TP 
До glibc 2.12:
ни одного
.RE
.PP
\fBffsl\fP(), \fBffsll\fP():
.RS 4
.PD 0
.TP  4
Начиная с glibc 2.27:
.\" glibc commit 68fe16dd327c895c08b9ee443b234c49c13b36e9
    _DEFAULT_SOURCE
.TP 
До glibc 2.27:
    _GNU_SOURCE
.PD
.RE
.ad
.PD
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBffs\fP() возвращает позицию первого (считая с наименее значимого)
установленного бита в слове \fIi\fP. Наименее значимый бит находится в позиции
номер 1, а наиболее значимый — в позиции (как пример) номер 32 или
64. Функции \fBffsll\fP() и \fBffsl\fP() делают то же самое, но имеют аргументы
возможно других размеров.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Эти функции возвращают положение первого установленного бита или 0, если в
\fIi\fP не установлено ни одного бита.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw22 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBffs\fP(),
\fBffsl\fP(),
\fBffsll\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
\fBffs\fP(): POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, 4.3BSD.
.PP
Функции \fBffsl\fP() и \fBffsll\fP() являются расширениями glibc.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
В системах BSD прототип указан в \fI<string.h>\fP.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBmemchr\fP(3)
