.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:37:37 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 22:40:48 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FGETPWENT 3 2018\-02\-02 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
fgetpwent \- получает записи из файла паролей
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdio.h>\fP
\fB#include <sys/types.h>\fP
\fB#include <pwd.h>\fP
.PP
\fBstruct passwd *fgetpwent(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBfgetpwent\fP():
    начиная с glibc 2.19:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    в glibc 2.19 и старее:
        _SVID_SOURCE
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBfgetpwent\fP() возвращает указатель на структуру, содержащую
отдельные поля строки файла \fIstream\fP. Во время первого вызова функция
возвращает первую запись; в дальнейшем она возвращает все последующие
записи. Формат файла \fIstream\fP должен быть таким же как у \fI/etc/passwd\fP
(смотрите \fBpasswd\fP(5)).
.PP
Структура \fIpasswd\fP определена в \fI<pwd.h>\fP таким образом:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
struct passwd {
    char   *pw_name;       /* имя пользователя */
    char   *pw_passwd;     /* пароль пользователя */
    uid_t   pw_uid;        /* идентификатор пользователя */
    gid_t   pw_gid;        /* идентификатор группы */
    char   *pw_gecos;      /* настоящее имя */
    char   *pw_dir;        /* домашний каталог */
    char   *pw_shell;      /* программная оболочка */
};
.EE
.in
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBfgetpwent\fP() возвращает указатель на структуру \fIpasswd\fP или NULL,
если больше паролей не найдено или произошла ошибка. При ошибке \fIerrno\fP
присваивается соответствующее значение.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBENOMEM\fP
Недостаточно памяти для структуры \fIpasswd\fP.
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
.TP 
\fI/etc/passwd\fP
файл, содержащий базу паролей
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBfgetpwent\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Unsafe race:fgetpwent
.TE
.\" FIXME: The marking is different from that in the glibc manual,
.\" which has:
.\"
.\"    fgetpwent: MT-Unsafe race:fpwent
.\"
.\" We think race:fpwent in glibc maybe hard for users to understand,
.\" and have sent a patch to the GNU libc community for changing it to
.\" race:fgetpwent, however, something about the copyright impeded the
.\" progress.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBendpwent\fP(3), \fBfgetpwent_r\fP(3), \fBfopen\fP(3), \fBgetpw\fP(3), \fBgetpwent\fP(3),
\fBgetpwnam\fP(3), \fBgetpwuid\fP(3), \fBputpwent\fP(3), \fBsetpwent\fP(3), \fBpasswd\fP(5)
