.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH FSEEK 3 2018\-04\-30 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
fgetpos, fseek, fsetpos, ftell, rewind \- меняют положение в потоке
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <stdio.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint fseek(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB, long \fP\fIoffset\fP\fB, int \fP\fIwhence\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBlong ftell(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBvoid rewind(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint fgetpos(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB, fpos_t *\fP\fIpos\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint fsetpos(FILE *\fP\fIstream\fP\fB, const fpos_t *\fP\fIpos\fP\fB);\fP
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBfseek\fP() устанавливает положение файлового индикатора в потоке, на
который указывает аргумент \fIstream\fP. Новое положение (в байтах) получается
прибавлением \fIoffset\fP байтов к положению, которое задаётся параметром
\fIwhence\fP. Если значение \fIwhence\fP равно \fBSEEK_SET\fP, \fBSEEK_CUR\fP или
\fBSEEK_END\fP, то смещение указывается относительно начала файла, текущего
положения указателя или конца файла, соответственно. Успешный вызов функции
\fBfseek\fP() очищает (clear) индикатор конца файла потока и отменяет влияние
функции \fBungetc\fP(3) на этот же поток.
.PP
Функция \fBftell\fP() возвращает текущее значение файлового индикатора
положения для потока, на который указывает \fIstream\fP.
.PP
Функция \fBrewind\fP() устанавливает файловый индикатор положения для потока,
на который указывает \fIstream\fP, равным началу файла. Эта функция
эквивалентна вызову:
.PP
.RS
(void) fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.RE
.PP
хотя в этом случае также сбрасывается индикатор ошибок потока (смотрите
\fBclearerr\fP(3)).
.PP
Функции \fBfgetpos\fP() и \fBfsetpos\fP() эквивалентны \fBftell\fP() и \fBfseek\fP()
(где значение \fIwhence\fP равно \fBSEEK_SET\fP); они сохраняют или устанавливают
текущее значение файлового смещения в объектах, определяемых \fIpos\fP. В
некоторых не\-UNIX системах объект \fIfpos_t\fP может быть сложным объектом, а
данные функции могут быть единственным переносимым способом изменения
положения в текстовом потоке.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBrewind\fP() не возвращает значений. При успешном выполнении функции
\fBfgetpos\fP(), \fBfseek\fP(), \fBfsetpos\fP() возвращают 0, а \fBftell\fP() возвращает
значение текущего смещения. В противном случае возвращается \-1, а в \fIerrno\fP
записывается соответствующий код ошибки.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Значение \fIwhence\fP в \fBfseek\fP() не равно \fBSEEK_SET\fP, \fBSEEK_\fP или
\fBSEEK_CUR\fP. Или результирующее смещение файла получается отрицательным.
.TP 
\fBESPIPE\fP
Связанный со \fIstream\fP файловый дескриптор не допускает перемоток (верно для
каналов, FIFO или сокетов).
.PP
При ошибках функции \fBfgetpos\fP(), \fBfseek\fP(), \fBfsetpos\fP() и \fBftell\fP()
устанавливают значение \fIerrno\fP равным значению, определённому в функциях
\fBfflush\fP(3), \fBfstat\fP(2), \fBlseek\fP(2) и \fBmalloc\fP(3).
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw27 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBfseek\fP(),
\fBftell\fP(),
\fBrewind\fP(),
.br
\fBfgetpos\fP(),
\fBfsetpos\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.sp 1
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C89, C99.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBlseek\fP(2), \fBfseeko\fP(3)
