.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:32:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH GCVT 3 2017\-09\-15 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
gcvt \- преобразовать число с плавающей точкой в строку
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *gcvt(double \fP\fInumber\fP\fB, int \fP\fIndigit\fP\fB, char *\fP\fIbuf\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBgcvt\fP():
.ad l
.PD 0
.RS 4
.TP  4
Начиная с glibc 2.12:
.nf
(_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500) ! (_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L)
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* в версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _SVID_SOURCE
.fi
.TP  4
До glibc 2.12:
.\"    || _XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
_SVID_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
.RE
.PD
.ad b
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBgcvt\fP() преобразует \fInumber\fP в строку ASCII (с null в конце)
минимальной длины и сохраняет результат в \fIbuf\fP. Она выдаёт \fIndigit\fP цифр
со знаком в F или E формате, описанных в \fBprintf\fP(3).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBgcvt\fP() возвращает адрес строки, на которую указывает \fIbuf\fP.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBgcvt\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.sp 1
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Отмечена в POSIX.1\-2001 как УСТАРЕВШАЯ. В POSIX.1\-2008 спецификация
\fBgcvt\fP() удалена, вместо них рекомендуется использовать \fBsprintf\fP(3)
(однако \fBsnprintf\fP(3) может быть предпочтительнее).
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBecvt\fP(3), \fBfcvt\fP(3), \fBsprintf\fP(3)
