.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_3_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)getloadavg.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" 2007-12-08, mtk, Converted from mdoc to man macros
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH GETLOADAVG 3 2016\-03\-15 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getloadavg \- возвращает среднее значение загруженности системы
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint getloadavg(double \fP\fIloadavg[]\fP\fB, int \fP\fInelem\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBgetloadavg\fP():
.nf
    начиная с glibc 2.19:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    в glibc до версии 2.19 включительно:
        _BSD_SOURCE
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBgetloadavg\fP() возвращает количество процессов в системной очереди
выполнения, усреднённое в разных периодах времени. Воспринимается до
\fInelem\fP образцов и они последовательно назначаются в элементы
\fIloadavg\fP[]. Система максимально выводит 3 образца, представляющие средние
данные за последние 1, 5 и 15 минут, соответственно.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
.\" .SH HISTORY
.\" The
.\" BR getloadavg ()
.\" function appeared in
.\" 4.3BSD Reno .
Если невозможно получить данные о средней загруженности системы, то
возвращается \-1; иначе возвращается количество полученных образов.
.SH ВЕРСИИ
Эта функция доступна в glibc начиная с версии 2.2.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBgetloadavg\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
.\" mdoc seems to have a bug - there must be no newline here
Не является частью POSIX.1. Имеется в BSD и Solaris.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBuptime\fP(1), \fBproc\fP(5)
