.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:23:25 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon May 27 21:37:47 1996 by Martin Schulze (joey@linux.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH GETPW 3 2017\-09\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getpw \- восстанавливает строку пароля
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#define _GNU_SOURCE\fP             /* смотрите feature_test_macros(7) */
\fB#include <sys/types.h>\fP
\fB#include <pwd.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint getpw(uid_t \fP\fIuid\fP\fB, char *\fP\fIbuf\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBgetpw\fP() заново создаёт в буфере строку пароля для пользователя с
ID \fIuid\fP в буфере \fIbuf\fP. Возвращаемый буфер содержит строку в формате
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
\fBname:passwd:uid:gid:gecos:dir:shell\fP
.EE
.in
.PP
Структура \fIpasswd\fP определена в \fI<pwd.h>\fP следующим образом:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
struct passwd {
    char   *pw_name;       /* имя пользователя */
    char   *pw_passwd;     /* пароль пользователя */
    uid_t   pw_uid;        /* идентификатор пользователя */
    gid_t   pw_gid;        /* идентификатор группы */
    char   *pw_gecos;      /* информация о пользователе */
    char   *pw_dir;        /* домашний каталог */
    char   *pw_shell;      /* программная оболочка */
};
.EE
.in
.PP
Подробней о полях этой структуры смотрите в \fBpasswd\fP(5).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении \fBgetpw\fP() возвращается 0; при ошибке возвращается
\-1, а в \fIerrno\fP содержится код ошибки.
.PP
Если \fIuid\fP не найден в базе данных паролей, то \fBgetpw\fP() возвращает \-1,
присваивает \fIerrno\fP значение 0 и \fIbuf\fP не изменяется.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fB0\fP или \fBENOENT\fP
Отсутствует пользователь с соответствующим \fIuid\fP.
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Значение \fIbuf\fP равно NULL.
.TP 
\fBENOMEM\fP
Недостаточно памяти для структуры \fIpasswd\fP.
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
.TP 
\fI/etc/passwd\fP
файл, содержащий базу паролей
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBgetpw\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe locale
.TE
.sp 1
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr2.
.SH ДЕФЕКТЫ
Функция \fBgetpw\fP() является в каком\-то смысле опасной, так как может
переполнить предоставляемый ей буфер \fIbuf\fP. Она заменена на \fBgetpwuid\fP(3).
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBendpwent\fP(3), \fBfgetpwent\fP(3), \fBgetpwent\fP(3), \fBgetpwnam\fP(3),
\fBgetpwuid\fP(3), \fBputpwent\fP(3), \fBsetpwent\fP(3), \fBpasswd\fP(5)
