.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:17:53 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH GETUSERSHELL 3 2016\-03\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getusershell, setusershell, endusershell \- возвращают разрешённые оболочки
пользователя
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <unistd.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *getusershell(void);\fP
.PP
\fBvoid setusershell(void);\fP
.PP
\fBvoid endusershell(void);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBgetusershell\fP(), \fBsetusershell\fP(), \fBendusershell\fP():
.nf
.\"             commit 266865c0e7b79d4196e2cc393693463f03c90bd8
    начиная с glibc 2.21:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    в glibc 2.19 и 2.20:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
    до glibc 2.19, включительно:
        _BSD_SOURCE || (_XOPEN_SOURCE && _XOPEN_SOURCE\ <\ 500)
.fi
.ad b
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBgetusershell\fP() возвращает следующую строку из файла
\fI/etc/shells\fP, открывая его в случае необходимости. Строка должна содержать
путь к допустимой оболочке пользователя.Если \fI/etc/shells\fP не существует
или недоступен для чтения, то \fBgetusershell\fP() ведёт себя так, как если бы
в файле были перечислены \fI/bin/sh\fP и \fI/bin/csh\fP.
.PP
Функция \fBsetusershell\fP()  переходит к началу \fI/etc/shells\fP.
.PP
Функция \fBendusershell\fP() закрывает \fI/etc/shells\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBgetusershell\fP() возвращает NULL или конец файла.
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
.nf
/etc/shells
.fi
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw31 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBgetusershell\fP(),
\fBsetusershell\fP(),
.br
\fBendusershell\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Unsafe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
4.3BSD.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBshells\fP(5)
