.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 2004-10-10 by aeb
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH INITGROUPS 3 2017\-09\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
initgroups \- инициализирует вспомогательный групповой список доступа
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <sys/types.h>\fP
\fB#include <grp.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint initgroups(const char *\fP\fIuser\fP\fB, gid_t \fP\fIgroup\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBinitgroups\fP():
    начиная с glibc 2.19:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    в glibc 2.19 и старее:
        _BSD_SOURCE
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBinitgroups\fP() инициализирует групповой список доступа путём чтения
базы данных групп \fI/etc/group\fP и использования всех групп, в которые входит
\fIuser\fP. Также в список добавляется дополнительная группа \fIgroup\fP.
.PP
Аргумент \fIuser\fP должен быть не равен NULL.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении функция \fBinitgroups\fP() возвращает 0. В случае
ошибки возвращается \-1, и устанавливается соответствующее значение \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBENOMEM\fP
Недостаточно памяти для структуры с информацией о группе.
.TP 
\fBEPERM\fP
Вызывающий процесс не имеет достаточно прав. Смотрите описание системного
вызова \fBsetgroups\fP(2).
.SH ФАЙЛЫ
.TP 
\fI/etc/group\fP
файл базы данных групп
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBinitgroups\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe locale
.TE
.sp 1
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBgetgroups\fP(2), \fBsetgroups\fP(2), \fBcredentials\fP(7)
