.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:55:01 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2004-06-16 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Added notes on CAP_KILL
.\" Modified 2004-06-21 by aeb
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH KILLPG 3 2017\-09\-15 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
killpg \- послать сигнал группе процессов
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <signal.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint killpg(int \fP\fIpgrp\fP\fB, int \fP\fIsig\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.ad l
.TP  4
\fBkillpg\fP():
.\"    || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
\fBkillpg\fP() отправляет сигнал \fIsig\fP группе процессов \fIpgrp\fP. Список
сигналов можно найти в \fBsignal\fP(7).
.PP
Если значение \fIpgrp\fP равно 0, то \fBkillpg\fP() отправляет сигнал вызывающей
группе процессов (в POSIX: если значение \fIpgrp\fP меньше или равно 1, то
поведение не определено).
.PP
Права, требуемые для отправки сигнала другому процессу, смотрите в
\fBkill\fP(2).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении возвращается 0. В случае ошибки возвращается \-1, а
\fIerrno\fP устанавливается в соответствующее значение.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
В \fIsig\fP задан неправильный номер сигнала.
.TP 
\fBEPERM\fP
Процесс не имеет достаточно прав для отправки сигнала ни одному из группы
процессов\-получателей. Требуемые права смотрите в \fBkill\fP(2).
.TP 
\fBESRCH\fP
В группе процессов \fIpgrp\fP нет ни одного процесса.
.TP 
\fBESRCH\fP
Номер группы процессов равен 0, но процесс\-отправитель не входит ни в какую
группу процессов.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, SVr4, 4.4BSD, (\fBkillpg\fP() впервые появился в
4BSD).
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Есть некоторые различия между проверкой прав в системах BSD и System\ V. Смотрите в POSIX объяснение \fBkill\fP(). Различие не упомянуто в POSIX по
отношению к возвращаемому значению \fBEPERM\fP: в BSD описано, что сигнал не
послан и возвращается \fBEPERM\fP когда проверка прав не пройдена по крайней
мере для одного процесса\-получателя, в то время как в POSIX описано, что
\fBEPERM\fP возвращается только когда проверка прав не пройдена для всех
процессов\-получателей.
.SS "Отличия между библиотекой C и ядром"
В Linux \fBkillpg\fP() реализован в виде библиотечной функции, которая вызывает
\fIkill(\-pgrp,\ sig)\fP.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBgetpgrp\fP(2), \fBkill\fP(2), \fBsignal\fP(2), \fBcapabilities\fP(7),
\fBcredentials\fP(7)
