.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:54:45 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH MEMFROB 3 2017\-03\-13 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
memfrob \- изменяет (зашифровывает) участок памяти
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#define _GNU_SOURCE\fP             /* смотрите feature_test_macros(7) */
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid *memfrob(void *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBmemfrob\fP() шифрует первые \fIn\fP байт участка памяти \fIs\fP используя
исключающее ИЛИ и число 42 для каждого символа. Этот же участок памяти можно
привести в изначальное состояние повторно использовав \fBmemfrob\fP().
.PP
Заметьте, что эта функция не является надежной, т. к. всегда сравнение идет
с обозначенной выше константой. Она пригодна только для скрытия строк.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBmemfrob\fP() возвращает указатель на зашифрованный участок памяти.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBmemfrob\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
\fBmemfrob\fP() есть только в библиотеке GNU C.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbstring\fP(3), \fBstrfry\fP(3)
