.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:50:48 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Interchanged 'needle' and 'haystack'; added history, aeb, 980113.
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH MEMMEM 3 2017\-03\-13 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
memmem \- ищет подстроку
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#define _GNU_SOURCE\fP         /* смотрите feature_test_macros(7) */
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid *memmem(const void *\fP\fIhaystack\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIhaystacklen\fP\fB,\fP
\fB             const void *\fP\fIneedle\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIneedlelen\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBmemmem\fP() ищет начало первого появления подстроки \fIneedle\fP
длинной \fIneedlelen\fP в области памяти \fIhaystack\fP размером \fIhaystacklen\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBmemmem\fP() возвращает указатель на начало подстроки или NULL, если
подстрока не найдена.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBmemmem\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Эта функция не определена в POSIX.1, однако доступна в некоторых других
системах.
.SH ДЕФЕКТЫ
.\" This function was broken in Linux libraries up to and including libc 5.0.9;
.\" there the
.\" .IR needle
.\" and
.\" .I haystack
.\" arguments were interchanged,
.\" and a pointer to the end of the first occurrence of
.\" .I needle
.\" was returned.
.\"
.\" Both old and new libc's have the bug that if
.\" .I needle
.\" is empty,
.\" .I haystack\-1
.\" (instead of
.\" .IR haystack )
.\" is returned.
В glibc 2.0, если \fIneedle\fP пусто, то \fBmemmem\fP() возвращает указатель на
последний байт \fIhaystack\fP. Это исправлено в glibc 2.1.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbstring\fP(3), \fBstrstr\fP(3)
