.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH MODF 3 2017\-09\-15 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
modf, modff, modfl \- извлекает целое и дробное значение со знаком из числа с
плавающей запятой
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.PP
\fBdouble modf(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB, double *\fP\fIiptr\fP\fB);\fP
\fBfloat modff(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB, float *\fP\fIiptr\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong double modfl(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB, long double *\fP\fIiptr\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
Компонуется при указании параметра \fI\-lm\fP.
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc (смотрите
\fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBmodf\fP(), \fBmodfl\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эти функции разбивают аргумент \fIx\fP на целую и дробную части, каждая из
которых имеет такой же знак, как и \fIx\fP. Целая часть сохраняется месте, на
которое указывает \fIiptr\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Данные функции возвращают дробную часть от \fIx\fP.
.PP
Если \fIx\fP имеет значение NaN, будет возвращено NaN и \fI*iptr\fP установится в
NaN.
.PP
Если \fIx\fP стремится к плюс или минус бесконечности, будет возвращено
значение +0 (\-0) и \fI*iptr\fP установится в плюс или минус бесконечность.
.SH ОШИБКИ
Ошибки не возникают.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw24 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBmodf\fP(),
\fBmodff\fP(),
\fBmodfl\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
C99, POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008.
.PP
Вариант, возвращающий значение типа \fIdouble\fP, также соответствует SVr4,
4.3BSD, C89.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBfrexp\fP(3), \fBldexp\fP(3)
