.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\" and Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:40:56 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mib@deakin.edu.au)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH RAISE 3 2015\-08\-08 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
raise \- посылает сигнал вызывающему
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <signal.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint raise(int \fP\fIsig\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBraise\fP() посылает сигнал вызвавшему процессу или нити. В
однонитевых программах это эквивалентно
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
kill(getpid(), sig);
.EE
.in
.PP
В многонитевых программах это эквивалентно
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
pthread_kill(pthread_self(), sig);
.EE
.in
.PP
Если из\-за сигнала вызвался обработчик, то \fBraise\fP() вернёт управление
только после завершения обработчика сигнала.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении функция \fBraise\fP() возвращает 0 или иное значение
при ошибке.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBraise\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C89, C99.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
.\" 2.3.2 used the obsolete tkill(), if available.
Начиная с версии 2.3.3 glibc реализует \fBraise\fP() с помощью \fBtgkill\fP(2),
если ядро поддерживает этот системный вызов. Предыдущие версии glibc
реализовали \fBraise\fP() с помощью \fBkill\fP(2).
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBgetpid\fP(2), \fBkill\fP(2), \fBsigaction\fP(2), \fBsignal\fP(2), \fBpthread_kill\fP(3),
\fBsignal\fP(7)
