.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:20:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 9 Jun 2004, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"     Changed unsetenv() prototype; added EINVAL error
.\"     Noted nonstandard behavior of setenv() if name contains '='
.\" 2005-08-12, mtk, glibc 2.3.4 fixed the "name contains '='" bug
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH SETENV 3 2017\-09\-15 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
setenv \- изменяет или добавляет переменную окружения
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <stdlib.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint setenv(const char *\fP\fIname\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIvalue\fP\fB, int \fP\fIoverwrite\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint unsetenv(const char *\fP\fIname\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBsetenv\fP(), \fBunsetenv\fP():
.RS 4
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
    || /* версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE
.RE
.ad b
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBsetenv\fP() добавляет переменную \fIname\fP в окружение со значением
\fIvalue\fP, если \fIname\fP ещё не существует. Если \fIname\fP в окружении
существует, то её значение изменяется на \fIvalue\fP, если \fIoverwrite\fP имеет
ненулевое значение; если \fIoverwrite\fP равно нулю, то значение \fIname\fP не
изменяется (и \fBsetenv\fP() завершается без ошибки). Эта функция делает копию
строк, указанных в \fIname\fP и \fIvalue\fP (в отличии от \fBputenv\fP(3)).
.PP
Функция \fBunsetenv\fP() удаляет переменную \fIname\fP из окружения. Если \fIname\fP
в окружении не существует, то функция завершается без ошибки и окружение не
изменяется.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении \fBsetenv\fP() возвращает ноль, при ошибке возвращается
\-1, а в \fIerrno\fP содержится код ошибки.
.PP
При успешном выполнении \fBunsetenv\fP() возвращает ноль, при ошибке
возвращается \-1, а в \fIerrno\fP содержится код ошибки.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Значение \fIname\fP равно NULL, указывает на строку нулевой длины или
содержащую символ \(aq=\(aq.
.TP 
\fBENOMEM\fP
Недостаточно памяти для добавления новой переменной в окружение.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.ad l
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBsetenv\fP(),
\fBunsetenv\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Unsafe const:env
.TE
.ad
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, 4.3BSD.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
В POSIX.1 не требуется, чтобы \fBsetenv\fP() или \fBunsetenv\fP() были
реентерабельными.
.PP
До glibc 2.2.2, \fBunsetenv\fP() объявлялась как возвращающая \fIvoid\fP; более
новые версии glibc следуют объявлению из POSIX.1, показанному в ОБЗОРЕ.
.SH ДЕФЕКТЫ
В POSIX.1 указано, что если \fIname\fP содержит символ \(aq=\(aq, то
\fBsetenv\fP() должна завершаться с ошибкой \fBEINVAL\fP; однако версии glibc до
2.3.4 допускали знак \(aq=\(aq в \fIname\fP.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBclearenv\fP(3), \fBgetenv\fP(3), \fBputenv\fP(3), \fBenviron\fP(7)
