.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:40:51 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Apr 14 16:20:34 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH SIGINTERRUPT 3 2016\-03\-15 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
siginterrupt \- разрешает сигналам прерывать системные вызовы
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <signal.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint siginterrupt(int \fP\fIsig\fP\fB, int \fP\fIflag\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBsiginterrupt\fP():
.ad l
.RS 4
.\"    || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
    || /* в версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBsiginterrupt\fP() изменяет поведение перезапуска когда системный
вызов прерывается сигналом \fIsig\fP. Если аргумент \fIflag\fP ложен (0), то
системные вызова будут перезапускаться, если они прерывались указанным
сигналом \fIsig\fP. Это поведение Linux по умолчанию.
.PP
Если аргумент \fIflag\fP истинен (1) и не пересылались данные, то системный
вызов, прерванный сигналом \fIsig\fP вернёт \-1 и \fIerrno\fP будет присвоено
значение \fBEINTR\fP.
.PP
Если аргумент \fIflag\fP истинен (1) и началась пересылка данных, то системный
вызов будет прерван и вернёт действительное количество пересланных данных.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении \fBsiginterrupt\fP() возвращает ноль. Она возвращает
\-1, если был указан неправильный номер сигнала \fIsig\fP, ив \fIerrno\fP будет
указан код ошибки.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Задан некорректный номер сигнала.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBsiginterrupt\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Unsafe const:sigintr
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
4.3BSD, POSIX.1\-2001. В POSIX.1\-2008 функция \fBsiginterrupt\fP() помечена как
устаревшая, вместо неё рекомендуется использовать \fBsigaction\fP(2) с флагом
\fBSA_RESTART\fP.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBsignal\fP(2)
