.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:08:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2001-08-31, aeb
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRCMP 3 2019\-03\-06 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
strcmp, strncmp \- сравнивает две строки
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint strcmp(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBint strncmp(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBstrcmp\fP() сравнивает строки \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP. При этом локаль не
учитывается (для её учёта используйте функцию \fBstrcoll\fP(3)). Она возвращает
целое число, которое меньше, больше нуля или равно ему, если выяснится, что
\fIs1\fP меньше, равна или больше \fIs2\fP соответственно.
.PP
Функция \fBstrncmp\fP() работает аналогичным образом, но сравниваются только
первые (не более) \fIn\fP байт строки \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функции \fBstrcmp\fP() и \fBstrncmp\fP() возвращают целое число, которое меньше,
больше нуля или равно ему, если строка \fIs1\fP (или её первые \fIn\fP байтов)
соответственно меньше, больше или равна \fIs2\fP.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw19 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBstrcmp\fP(),
\fBstrncmp\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C89, C99, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbcmp\fP(3), \fBmemcmp\fP(3), \fBstrcasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrcoll\fP(3), \fBstring\fP(3),
\fBstrncasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrverscmp\fP(3), \fBwcscmp\fP(3), \fBwcsncmp\fP(3)
