.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:51:24 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" 2006-05-19, Justin Pryzby <pryzbyj@justinpryzby.com>
.\"	Document strchrnul(3).
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRCHR 3 2019\-03\-06 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
strchr, strrchr, strchrnul \- определение местонахождения символа в строке
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strchr(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strrchr(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP

\fB#define _GNU_SOURCE\fP         /* см. feature_test_macros(7) */
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strchrnul(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBstrchr\fP() возвращает указатель на местонахождение первого
совпадения с символом \fIc\fP в строке \fIs\fP.
.PP
Функция \fBstrrchr\fP() возвращает указатель на местонахождение последнего
совпадения с символом \fIc\fP в строке \fIs\fP.
.PP
Функция \fBstrchrnul\fP() подобна \fBstrchr\fP(), за исключением того, что если
символ \fIc\fP не найден в строке \fIs\fP, то возвращается указатель на байт null
в конце \fIs\fP, а не NULL.
.PP
Здесь под «символом» подразумевается «байт» — данные функции не работают с
широкими и многобайтными символами.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функции \fBstrchr\fP() и \fBstrrchr\fP() возвращает указатель на местонахождение
первого совпадения с символом или NULL, если символ не найден. Завершающий
байт null считается частью строки, и поэтому, если символ \fIc\fP задан как
\(aq\e0\(aq, то эти функции возвращают указатель на завершающий символ.
.PP
Функция \fBstrchrnul\fP() возвращает указатель на совпавший символ, или
указатель на байт null в конце строки \fIs\fP (т.е., \fIs+strlen(s)\fP), если
символ не найден.
.SH ВЕРСИИ
Функция \fBstrchrnul\fP() впервые появилась в glibc версии 2.1.1.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw32 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBstrchr\fP(),
\fBstrrchr\fP(),
\fBstrchrnul\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
\fBstrchr\fP(), \fBstrrchr\fP(): POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C89, C99, SVr4,
4.3BSD.
.PP
Функция \fBstrchrnul\fP() является расширением GNU.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBindex\fP(3), \fBmemchr\fP(3), \fBrindex\fP(3), \fBstring\fP(3), \fBstrlen\fP(3),
\fBstrpbrk\fP(3), \fBstrsep\fP(3), \fBstrspn\fP(3), \fBstrstr\fP(3), \fBstrtok\fP(3),
\fBwcschr\fP(3), \fBwcsrchr\fP(3)
