.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:34 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Oct 17 01:12:26 2001 by John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRDUP 3 2019\-03\-06 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
strdup, strndup, strdupa, strndupa \- дублирование строки
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strdup(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strndup(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
\fBchar *strdupa(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
\fBchar *strndupa(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBstrdup\fP():
.RS 4
.\"    || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
_XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.12: */ _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
    || /* в версии glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.PP
\fBstrndup\fP():
.RS 4
.TP  4
Начиная с glibc 2.10:
_POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200809L
.TP 
До glibc 2.10:
_GNU_SOURCE
.RE
.PP
\fBstrdupa\fP(), \fBstrndupa\fP(): _GNU_SOURCE
.ad
.PD
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBstrdup\fP() возвращает указатель на новую строку, являющуюся
дубликатом строки \fIs\fP. Память под новую строку выделятся с помощью
\fBmalloc\fP(3) и может быть высвобождены с помощью \fBfree\fP(3).
.PP
Функция \fBstrndup\fP() похожа на предыдущую, но копирует не более \fIn\fP
байт. Если \fIs\fP длиннее \fIn\fP, то копируется только \fIn\fP байт и добавляется
конечный байт null (\(aq\e0\(aq).
.PP
Функции \fBstrdupa\fP() и \fBstrndupa\fP() подобны предыдущим, но для выделения
буфера используют \fBalloca\fP(3). Эти функции доступны только при
использовании GNU GCC и имеют ограничения, описанные в \fBalloca\fP(3).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении функция \fBstrdup\fP() возвращает указатель на копию
строки. Она возвращает NULL, если недостаточно памяти и записывает в
\fIerrno\fP номер ошибки.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBENOMEM\fP
Недостаточно памяти для размещения копии строки.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw31 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBstrdup\fP(),
\fBstrndup\fP(),
\fBstrdupa\fP(),
.br
\fBstrndupa\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.sp 1
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
.\" 4.3BSD-Reno, not (first) 4.3BSD.
Функция \fBstrdup\fP() соответствует SVr4, 4.3BSD и POSIX.1\-2001. \fBstrndup\fP()
соответствует POSIX.1\-2008. \fBstrdupa\fP() и \fBstrndupa\fP() являются
расширениями GNU.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBalloca\fP(3), \fBcalloc\fP(3), \fBfree\fP(3), \fBmalloc\fP(3), \fBrealloc\fP(3),
\fBstring\fP(3), \fBwcsdup\fP(3)
