.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:54:31 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRING 3 2019\-03\-06 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
stpcpy, strcasecmp, strcat, strchr, strcmp, strcoll, strcpy, strcspn,
strdup, strfry, strlen, strncat, strncmp, strncpy, strncasecmp, strpbrk,
strrchr, strsep, strspn, strstr, strtok, strxfrm, index, rindex \- операции
со строками
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <strings.h>\fP
.TP 
\fBint strcasecmp(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB);\fP
Сравнение строк \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP без учета регистра.
.TP 
\fBint strncasecmp(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
Сравнивает первые \fIn\fP байт строк \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP без учета регистра.
.TP 
\fBchar *index(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает указатель на местонахождение первого совпадения с символом \fIc\fP в
строке \fIs\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *rindex(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает указатель на местонахождение последнего совпадения с символом
\fIc\fP в строке \fIs\fP.
.TP 
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.TP 
\fBchar *stpcpy(char *\fP\fIdest\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIsrc\fP\fB);\fP
Копирует строку из \fIsrc\fP в \fIdest\fP, возвращая указатель на конец строки
результата в \fIdest\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strcat(char *\fP\fIdest\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIsrc\fP\fB);\fP
Добавляет строку \fIsrc\fP к строке \fIdest\fP, возвращая указатель на \fIdest\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strchr(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает указатель на местонахождение первого совпадения с символом \fIc\fP в
строке \fIs\fP.
.TP 
\fBint strcmp(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB);\fP
Сравнивает строки \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP.
.TP 
\fBint strcoll(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB);\fP
Сравнивает строки \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP, применяя правила текущей локали.
.TP 
\fBchar *strcpy(char *\fP\fIdest\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIsrc\fP\fB);\fP
Копирует строку \fIsrc\fP в \fIdest\fP, возвращая указатель на начало строки в
\fIdest\fP.
.TP 
\fBsize_t strcspn(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIreject\fP\fB);\fP
Вычисляет длину начального сегмента строки \fIs\fP, состоящего только из байт,
не указанных в строке \fIreject\fP,
.TP 
\fBchar *strdup(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает копию строки \fIs\fP, память для которой выделяется с помощью
\fBmalloc\fP(3).
.TP 
\fBchar *strfry(char *\fP\fIstring\fP\fB);\fP
Переставляет символы в \fIstring\fP в произвольном порядке.
.TP 
\fBsize_t strlen(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает длину строки \fIs\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strncat(char *\fP\fIdest\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIsrc\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
Добавляет не более \fIn\fP байт из строки \fIsrc\fP в строку \fIdest\fP, возвращая
указатель на \fIdest\fP.
.TP 
\fBint strncmp(const char *\fP\fIs1\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIs2\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
Сравнивает не более \fIn\fP байт строк \fIs1\fP и \fIs2\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strncpy(char *\fP\fIdest\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIsrc\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
Копирует не более \fIn\fP байт из строки \fIsrc\fP в строку \fIdest\fP, возвращая
указатель на \fIdest\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strpbrk(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIaccept\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает первое появление в строке \fIs\fP любых байтов из строки \fIaccept\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strrchr(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, int \fP\fIc\fP\fB);\fP
Возвращает указатель на местонахождение последнего совпадения с символом
\fIc\fP в строке \fIs\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strsep(char **\fP\fIstringp\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIdelim\fP\fB);\fP
Извлекает начальный токен из \fIstringp\fP, который отделён одним из байтов из
\fIdelim\fP.
.TP 
\fBsize_t strspn(const char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIaccept\fP\fB);\fP
Вычисляет длину начального сегмента из строки \fIs\fP, состоящего только из
байт, указанных в \fIaccept\fP.
.TP 
\fBchar *strstr(const char *\fP\fIhaystack\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIneedle\fP\fB);\fP
Ищет первое соответствие подстроки \fIneedle\fP в строке \fIhaystack\fP и
возвращает указатель на найденную подстроку.
.TP 
\fBchar *strtok(char *\fP\fIs\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIdelim\fP\fB);\fP
Извлекает токены из строки \fIs\fP, которые отделены одним из байтов из
\fIdelim\fP.
.TP 
\fBsize_t strxfrm(char *\fP\fIdest\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIsrc\fP\fB, size_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
Преобразует \fIsrc\fP в текущую локаль и копирует первые \fIn\fP байт в \fIdest\fP.
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Строковые функции работают со строками, заканчивающимися null. Подробное
описание функций смотрите в соответствующей справочной странице.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBindex\fP(3), \fBrindex\fP(3), \fBstpcpy\fP(3), \fBstrcasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrcat\fP(3),
\fBstrchr\fP(3), \fBstrcmp\fP(3), \fBstrcoll\fP(3), \fBstrcpy\fP(3), \fBstrcspn\fP(3),
\fBstrdup\fP(3), \fBstrfry\fP(3), \fBstrlen\fP(3), \fBstrncasecmp\fP(3), \fBstrncat\fP(3),
\fBstrncmp\fP(3), \fBstrncpy\fP(3), \fBstrpbrk\fP(3), \fBstrrchr\fP(3), \fBstrsep\fP(3),
\fBstrspn\fP(3), \fBstrstr\fP(3), \fBstrtok\fP(3), \fBstrxfrm\fP(3)
