.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:56:43 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Added history, aeb, 980113.
.\" 2005-05-05 mtk: added strcasestr()
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STRSTR 3 2019\-03\-06 GNU "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
strstr, strcasestr \- поиск подстроки
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strstr(const char *\fP\fIhaystack\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIneedle\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fB#define _GNU_SOURCE\fP         /* см. feature_test_macros(7) */
.PP
\fB#include <string.h>\fP
.PP
\fBchar *strcasestr(const char *\fP\fIhaystack\fP\fB, const char *\fP\fIneedle\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBstrstr\fP() ищет первое соответствие подстроки \fIneedle\fP в строке
\fIhaystack\fP. Конечные байты null (\(aq\e0\(aq) не сравниваются.
.PP
\fBstrcasestr\fP() аналогична \fBstrstr\fP(), но при этом игнорируется регистр
обеих строк.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Данные функции возвращают указатель на начало найденной подстроки или NULL,
если подстрока не найдена.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBstrstr\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
T{
\fBstrcasestr\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe locale
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
\fBstrstr\fP(): POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, C89, C99.
.PP
.\" .SH BUGS
.\" Early versions of Linux libc (like 4.5.26) would not allow
.\" an empty
.\" .I needle
.\" argument for
.\" .BR strstr ().
.\" Later versions (like 4.6.27) work correctly,
.\" and return
.\" .IR haystack
.\" when
.\" .I needle
.\" is empty.
\fBstrcasestr\fP() является нестандартизованным расширением.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBindex\fP(3), \fBmemchr\fP(3), \fBmemmem\fP(3), \fBrindex\fP(3), \fBstrcasecmp\fP(3),
\fBstrchr\fP(3), \fBstring\fP(3), \fBstrpbrk\fP(3), \fBstrsep\fP(3), \fBstrspn\fP(3),
\fBstrtok\fP(3), \fBwcsstr\fP(3)
