.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:52:15 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2001-12-15, aeb
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH SWAB 3 2015\-08\-08 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
swab \- меняет местами соседние байты
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#define _XOPEN_SOURCE\fP       /* См. feature_test_macros(7) */
\fB#include <unistd.h>\fP
.PP
\fBvoid swab(const void *\fP\fIfrom\fP\fB, void *\fP\fIto\fP\fB, ssize_t \fP\fIn\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Функция \fBswab\fP() копирует \fIn\fP байт из массива, указанного в \fIfrom\fP в
массив, указанный в \fIto\fP, меняя местами смежные чётные и нечётные
байты. Эта функция используется при обмене данными между машинами, у которых
разный  порядок младшего/старшего байтов.
.PP
Данная функция ничего не делает, если \fIn\fP отрицательно. Если \fIn\fP
положительно и нечётно, то обрабатываются \fIn\-1\fP байт, как описано выше, а
для последнего байта действие не определено (другими словами, \fIn\fP должно
быть чётно).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Функция \fBswab\fP() не возвращает никаких значений.
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lb lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBswab\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbstring\fP(3)
