.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk
.\"     <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2002-07-27 by Walter Harms
.\" 	(walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH TAN 3 2017\-09\-15 "" "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
tan, tanf, tanl \- функция тангенса
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <math.h>\fP
.PP
\fBdouble tan(double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
\fBfloat tanf(float \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
\fBlong double tanl(long double \fP\fIx\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
Компонуется при указании параметра \fI\-lm\fP.
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
\fBtanf\fP(), \fBtanl\fP():
.RS 4
_ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE\ >=\ 200112L
    || /* начиная с glibc 2.19: */ _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    || /* в версиях glibc <= 2.19: */ _BSD_SOURCE || _SVID_SOURCE
.RE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эти функции возвращают тангенс от \fIx\fP, где \fIx\fP указан в радианах.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
В случае успеха эти функции возвращают тангенс от \fIx\fP.
.PP
Если \fIx\fP равно NaN, то будет возвращено NaN.
.PP
Если \fIx\fP стремится к плюс бесконечности или минус бесконечности, то будет
сгенерирована ошибка выхода за пределы области, а в качестве результата
будет возвращено NaN.
.PP
.\" I think overflow can't occur, because the closest floating-point
.\" representation of pi/2 is still not close enough to pi/2 to
.\" produce a large enough value to overflow.
.\" Testing certainly seems to bear this out.  -- mtk, Jul 08
.\"
.\" POSIX.1 allows an optional underflow error;
.\" glibc 2.8 doesn't do this
.\" POSIX.1 an optional range error for subnormal x;
.\" glibc 2.8 doesn't do this
В случаях, когда корректный результат переполняется, возникает ошибка
диапазона, а функции возвращают \fBHUGE_VAL\fP, \fBHUGE_VALF\fP или \fBHUGE_VALL\fP
соответственно, с математически правильным знаком.
.SH ОШИБКИ
Смотрите \fBmath_error\fP(7), чтобы определить, какие ошибки могут возникать
при вызове этих функций.
.PP
Могут возникать следующие ошибки:
.TP 
Ошибка области: \fIx\fP стремится к бесконечности
Значение \fIerrno\fP устанавливается в \fBEDOM\fP (но см. ДЕФЕКТЫ). Возникает
исключение неправильной плавающей запятой (\fBFE_INVALID\fP).
.TP 
Ошибка диапазона: результат превысил разрядность
.\" Unable to test this case, since the best approximation of
.\" pi/2 in double precision only yields a tan() value of 1.633e16.
.\" .I errno
.\" is set to
.\" .BR ERANGE .
Вызывается исключение переполнения плавающей запятой (\fBFE_OVERFLOW\fP).
.SH АТРИБУТЫ
Описание терминов данного раздела смотрите в \fBattributes\fP(7).
.TS
allbox;
lbw21 lb lb
l l l.
Интерфейс	Атрибут	Значение
T{
\fBtan\fP(),
\fBtanf\fP(),
\fBtanl\fP()
T}	Безвредность в нитях	MT\-Safe
.TE
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
C99, POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008.
.PP
Вариант, возвращающий значение типа \fIdouble\fP, также соответствует SVr4,
4.3BSD, C89.
.SH ДЕФЕКТЫ
.\" http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=6782
До версии 2.10 в реализации glibc при возникновении ошибки области \fIerrno\fP
не устанавливалось в значение \fBEDOM\fP.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBacos\fP(3), \fBasin\fP(3), \fBatan\fP(3), \fBatan2\fP(3), \fBcos\fP(3), \fBctan\fP(3),
\fBsin\fP(3)
