.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"             and Copyright (C) 1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 21:25:26 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 03:46:05 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH ALARM 2 2017\-05\-03 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
alarm \- установка будильника для доставки сигнала
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <unistd.h>\fP
.PP
\fBunsigned int alarm(unsigned int \fP\fIseconds\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Системный вызов \fBalarm\fP() размещает сигнал \fBSIGALRM\fP для доставки
вызывающему процессу через \fIseconds\fP секунд.
.PP
Если значение \fIseconds\fP равно 0, то любой ожидающий будильник будет
отменён.
.PP
При любом событии ранее запланированный \fBalarm\fP() отменяется.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
\fBalarm\fP() возвращает количество секунд, оставшихся до момента доставки
сигнала, запланированного ранее, или ноль, если сигнал не запланирован.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, SVr4, 4.3BSD.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
\fBalarm\fP() и \fBsetitimer\fP(2) используют один и тот же таймер; они будут
мешать работе друг друга.
.PP
Будильники, созданные \fBalarm\fP(), сохраняются при выполнении \fBexecve\fP(2) и
не наследуются потомками, созданными с помощью \fBfork\fP(2).
.PP
\fBsleep\fP(3) может быть реализован через \fBSIGALRM\fP, поэтому лучше не
использовать \fBalarm\fP() и \fBsleep\fP(3) одновременно.
.PP
Постановка сигнала в очередь может вызывать задержу выполнения вызвавшего
процесса на произвольное время.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBgettimeofday\fP(2), \fBpause\fP(2), \fBselect\fP(2), \fBsetitimer\fP(2),
\fBsigaction\fP(2), \fBsignal\fP(2), \fBtimer_create\fP(2), \fBtimerfd_create\fP(2),
\fBsleep\fP(3), \fBtime\fP(7)
