.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     @(#)getsockname.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH GETSOCKNAME 2 2017\-09\-15 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
getsockname \- получить имя сокета
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <sys/socket.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint getsockname(int \fP\fIsockfd\fP\fB, struct sockaddr *\fP\fIaddr\fP\fB, socklen_t *\fP\fIaddrlen\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
\fBgetsockname\fP() возвращает текущий адрес, к которому привязан сокет
\fIsockfd\fP, в буфере, указываемом \fIaddr\fP. В параметре \fIaddrlen\fP должно быть
указано, сколько места выделено (в байтах), на которое указывает
\fIaddr\fP. При возврате в этом параметре передается реальный размер адреса
сокета.
.PP
Возвращаемый адрес урежется, если предоставленный буфер окажется слишком
маленьким; в этом случае в \fIaddrlen\fP будет возвращено значение большее чем
было в вызове.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении возвращается 0. В случае ошибки возвращается \-1, а
\fIerrno\fP устанавливается в соответствующее значение.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEBADF\fP
Аргумент \fIsockfd\fP не является допустимым файловым дескриптором.
.TP 
\fBEFAULT\fP
Аргумент \fIaddr\fP указывает на память в недопустимой части адресуемого
пространства процесса.
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Неправильное значение аргумента \fIaddrlen\fP (например, отрицательное).
.TP 
\fBENOBUFS\fP
Недостаточно ресурсов в системе для выполнения операции.
.TP 
\fBENOTSOCK\fP
Файловый дескриптор \fIsockfd\fP указывает не на каталог.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
.\" SVr4 documents additional ENOMEM
.\" and ENOSR error codes.
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, SVr4, 4.4BSD, (\fBgetsockname\fP() впервые появился
в 4.2BSD).
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Описание типа \fIsocklen_t\fP смотрите в \fBaccept\fP(2).
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBbind\fP(2), \fBsocket\fP(2), \fBgetifaddrs\fP(3), \fBip\fP(7), \fBsocket\fP(7),
\fBunix\fP(7)
