.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:14:13 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>
.\"   Update calling parameters to Linux 1.2.4 values.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 3 May 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 04:05:28 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sat Jan 29 01:08:23 2000 by aeb
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH SETUP 2 2008\-12\-03 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
setup \- настраивает устройства и файловые системы, монтирует корневую
файловую систему
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <unistd.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint setup(void);\fP
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
\fBsetup\fP() вызывается один раз из \fIlinux/init/main.c\fP. Она вызывает функции
инициализации устройств и файловых систем, встроенных в ядро, и затем
монтирует корневую файловую систему.
.PP
Ни один из пользовательских процессов не может вызвать \fBsetup\fP(). Любой
пользовательский процесс даже с правами суперпользователя будет получать
сообщение об ошибке с кодом \fBEPERM\fP.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Вызов \fBsetup\fP() всегда возвращает пользовательскому процессу значение \-1.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEPERM\fP
Всегда для пользовательского процесса.
.SH ВЕРСИИ
Начиная с Linux 2.1.121, эта функция не существует.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
Эта функция применяется только в Linux и поэтому не должна использоваться в
программах, предназначенных для переноса на другую платформу, и вообще не
должна вызываться из пользовательских программ.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Вызывающая последовательность менялась: в некоторых версиях у \fBsetup\fP() был
один аргумент \fIvoid\ *BIOS\fP, а в некоторых — \fIint magic\fP.
