.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(BSD_4_CLAUSE_UCB)
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 1999/03/21 22:52:23 freitag Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 2018\-04\-30 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
shutdown \- закрывает часть полнодуплексного соединения
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <sys/socket.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint shutdown(int \fP\fIsockfd\fP\fB, int \fP\fIhow\fP\fB);\fP
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Вызов \fBshutdown\fP() приводит к закрытию всего полнодуплексного соединения
или его части в сокете, связанном с \fIsockfd\fP. Если значение \fIhow\fP равно
\fBSHUT_RD\fP, то дальнейший приём данных будет запрещён. Если значение \fIhow\fP
равно \fBSHUT_WR\fP, то дальнейшая передача данных будет запрещена. Если
значение \fIhow\fP равно \fBSHUT_RDWR\fP, то дальнейший приём и передача данных
будут запрещены.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении возвращается 0. В случае ошибки возвращается \-1, а
\fIerrno\fP устанавливается в соответствующее значение.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEBADF\fP
Значение \fIsockfd\fP не является правильным файловым дескриптором.
.TP 
\fBEINVAL\fP
Указано неверное значение в \fIhow\fP (но смотрите ДЕФЕКТЫ).
.TP 
\fBENOTCONN\fP
Указанный сокет не подключён.
.TP 
\fBENOTSOCK\fP
Файловый дескриптор \fIsockfd\fP указывает не на каталог.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
POSIX.1\-2001, POSIX.1\-2008, 4.4BSD, (\fBshutdown\fP() впервые появился в
4.2BSD).
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Константы \fBSHUT_RD\fP, \fBSHUT_WR\fP, \fBSHUT_RDWR\fP имеют значения 0, 1, 2,
соответственно, и определены в \fI<sys/socket.h>\fP начиная с
glibc\-2.1.91.
.SH ДЕФЕКТЫ
.\" https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=47111
.\" commit fc61b928dc4d72176cf4bd4d30bf1d22e599aefc
.\" and for DECnet sockets in commit 46b66d7077b89fb4917ceef19b3f7dd86055c94a
Проверки применимости \fIhow\fP выполняются в коде, относящемся к домену, и до
Linux 3.7 проверки были не во всех доменах. В первую очередь, это были
доменные сокеты UNIX, которые просто игнорировали некорректные
значения. Данная проблема была устранена для доменных сокетов UNIX в Linux
3.7.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBclose\fP(2), \fBconnect\fP(2), \fBsocket\fP(2), \fBsocket\fP(7)
