.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 2001-03-16 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 2004-05-27 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH STIME 2 2016\-03\-15 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
stime \- устанавливает системное время
.SH ОБЗОР
\fB#include <time.h>\fP
.PP
\fBint stime(const time_t *\fP\fIt\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
\fBstime\fP():
    начиная с glibc 2.19:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    glibc 2.19 и старее:
        _SVID_SOURCE
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Вызов \fBstime\fP() устанавливает системное (не аппаратное) время и дату
машины. Время, заданное в \fIt\fP, измеряется в секундах с начала Эпохи, с
00:00:00 1 января 1970 года (UTC). Функцию \fBstime\fP() может вызывать только
суперпользователь.
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
При успешном выполнении возвращается 0. В случае ошибки возвращается \-1, а
\fIerrno\fP устанавливается в соответствующее значение.
.SH ОШИБКИ
.TP 
\fBEFAULT\fP
Ошибка при получении информации из пространства пользователя.
.TP 
\fBEPERM\fP
Вызвавшему процессу не хватает прав. В Linux для этого требуется мандат
\fBCAP_SYS_TIME\fP.
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
SVr4.
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBdate\fP(1), \fBsettimeofday\fP(2), \fBcapabilities\fP(7)
