.\" -*- mode: troff; coding: UTF-8 -*-
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\" and Copyright (c) 2004 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(VERBATIM)
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:32:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Jun 23 14:09:52 1997 by aeb - add EINTR.
.\" Modified Tue Jul  7 12:26:42 1998 by aeb - changed return value wait3
.\" Modified 2004-11-11, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpages@gmail.com>
.\"	Rewrote much of this page, and removed much duplicated text,
.\"		replacing with pointers to wait.2
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.TH WAIT4 2 2018\-04\-30 Linux "Руководство программиста Linux"
.SH ИМЯ
wait3, wait4 \- ожидает смену состояния в стиле BSD
.SH ОБЗОР
.nf
\fB#include <sys/types.h>\fP
\fB#include <sys/time.h>\fP
\fB#include <sys/resource.h>\fP
\fB#include <sys/wait.h>\fP
.PP
\fBpid_t wait3(int *\fP\fIwstatus\fP\fB, int \fP\fIoptions\fP\fB,\fP
\fB            struct rusage *\fP\fIrusage\fP\fB);\fP
.PP
\fBpid_t wait4(pid_t \fP\fIpid\fP\fB, int *\fP\fIwstatus\fP\fB, int \fP\fIoptions\fP\fB,\fP
\fB            struct rusage *\fP\fIrusage\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.PP
.in -4n
Требования макроса тестирования свойств для glibc
(см. \fBfeature_test_macros\fP(7)):
.in
.PP
.ad l
.\"          || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ &&\ _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED
\fBwait3\fP():
    начиная с glibc 2.19:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
    glibc 2.19 и старее:
        _BSD_SOURCE || _XOPEN_SOURCE\ >=\ 500
.br
\fBwait4\fP():
    начиная с glibc 2.19:
        _DEFAULT_SOURCE
    glibc 2.19 и старее:
        _BSD_SOURCE
.ad
.SH ОПИСАНИЕ
Эти функции являются нестандартными; в новых программах используйте
\fBwaitpid\fP(2) или \fBwaitid\fP(2).
.PP
Системные вызовы \fBwait3\fP() и \fBwait4\fP() похожи на \fBwaitpid\fP(2), но
дополнительно возвращают информацию об использовании ресурсов потомком в
структуре, указываемой \fIrusage\fP.
.PP
Помимо использования аргумента \fIrusage\fP, вызов \fBwait3\fP():
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
wait3(wstatus, options, rusage);
.EE
.in
.PP
эквивалентен:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
waitpid(\-1, wstatus, options);
.EE
.in
.PP
Подобно этому, вызов \fBwait4\fP():
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
wait4(pid, wstatus, options, rusage);
.EE
.in
.PP
эквивалентен:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
waitpid(pid, wstatus, options);
.EE
.in
.PP
Другими словами, \fBwait3\fP() ожидает любого потомка, а для \fBwait4\fP() может
быть указан определённый потомок или потомки, которых нужно
ожидать. Подробней см. \fBwait\fP(2).
.PP
Если \fIrusage\fP не равно NULL, то \fIstruct rusage\fP, на которую он указывает,
будет заполнен информацией о работе потомка. Подробней см. \fBgetrusage\fP(2).
.SH "ВОЗВРАЩАЕМОЕ ЗНАЧЕНИЕ"
Как в \fBwaitpid\fP(2).
.SH ОШИБКИ
Как в \fBwaitpid\fP(2).
.SH "СООТВЕТСТВИЕ СТАНДАРТАМ"
4.3BSD.
.PP
В SUSv1 определена \fBwait3\fP(); в SUSv2 включена \fBwait3\fP(), но помечена как
УСТАРЕВШАЯ; удалена в SUSv3.
.SH ЗАМЕЧАНИЯ
Включать \fI<sys/time.h>\fP в настоящее время не требуется, но это
увеличивает переносимость. (Безусловно, в \fI<sys/resource.h>\fP
определена структура \fIrusage\fP с полями типа \fIstruct timeval\fP, которая
определена в \fI<sys/time.h>\fP.)
.SS "Отличия между библиотекой C и ядром"
В Linux, \fBwait3\fP() является библиотечной функцией, реализованной на основе
системного вызова \fBwait4\fP().
.SH "СМОТРИТЕ ТАКЖЕ"
\fBfork\fP(2), \fBgetrusage\fP(2), \fBsigaction\fP(2), \fBsignal\fP(2), \fBwait\fP(2),
\fBsignal\fP(7)
